# Shell Scripting Instructions:

1. In Lab8 and lab9, you made a command that would list the phone.book file (formerly called file.txt) sorted and human-readable. The next step is to add a test statement to make sure the phone file is really there and that you can read it. Put out an error message if not, and allow the user to put in a different file name (which also needs to be checked.)  This test should go into the same script you have been working on in labs 8 and 9, and you should put this version in the lab10 directory.
    Think of the basic file here as a phonebook file.  There should be a default phonebook file, that will be listed if anyone just runs the script (that is, the default should have a few names in it, and should be listable by anyone.)   But when someone runs the script, they should also be able to use their own phonebook instead of the default, so you need to provide a way for them to enter a different file name, and you need to check that if that file exists, you (your script) can list it, and if it doesn't exist, your script perhaps can create it.  (But the user may give you a bad path, or not have permissions in the directory they give, so you have to do several checks and messages to the user.  Or you could just tell them to create a file they can write in, and then re-run your script to use it.)
     You could also think about how the user can add a name (and email and phone number) to the file (so it needs to be writable), again, either the default filename or the new filename the user gives. Think about allowing the user to add several names to the phonebook file at once, or even (not required) give you a file name with a list of users for new entries.
     This could be done in the same script or as a separate script, and this could all be put off until lab 11, where I ask you to make a phonebook application.  This is for practice with pieces of a more complete script, and how much you want to do for it depends on what time you have, and how much practice you want to get in actually writing a useful shell script.

2. Write 3 scripts, all doing the same thing in different ways. (Perhaps call it “greetinga”, "greetingb", etc?) that will echo the appropriate greeting “Good Morning”, “Good Afternoon” or “Good Evening”, depending on what time it is. There should be 3 versions:
   a. Give your script the current hour as a command-line parameter (in 24-hour format) (What does parameter mean?? The hour goes on the command line, when you call the script.  NOT with "read" inside the script!)
   b. Pipe the output of the date command to the script (which means your need to use the "read" command to get the output of "date").  Remember, what the pipe gives is "standard input", and that is the same thing that "read" uses as input, even when you type to your terminal.
   c. Use the “date” command inside the script to find the current hour. (Use “man” to find out how to get just the hour from the date command.)
Which of these three methods of getting input do you think is most convenient for the user of the script? (Note that "as a parameter" means the user puts the time on the command line, and the script uses the built-in variables to process it. If the input is piped to the command, it comes in as standard input, which is read with the "read" command.).  If the script asks the user to type in information, that is also a form of 'standard input", which the read command reads.

3. Write a script that will print out the largest of 3 numbers you give as parameters to the script. (Again, as parameters, not as standard input.)
(Later, in lab11, we will change it so you can give the script any number of numbers.)

4. (Optional) Write a script that will ask the user for a name or account, and then look that name or account in /etc/passwd and print out the corresponding home directory. Put out an error message if the name is not found. (Don’t forget case, and that there may be more than one of a name in the password file, so you have to make sure the name typed in is the whole account name, or if it is a user name, that all the answers come out nicely.)
